which it circulated in bank notes, this five per
cent. might perhaps be considered as a clear
gain, without any other deduction besides the
expense of management. But upon upwards of
six hundred thousand pounds, for which it was
continually drawing bills of exchange upon
London, it was paying, in the way of interest
and commission, upwards of eight per cent.
and was consequently losing more than three
per cent. upon more than three-fourths of all
its dealings.

The operations of this bank seem to have
produced effects quite opposite to those which
were intended by the particular persons who
planned and directed it. They seem to have
intended to support the spirited undertakings,
for as such they considered them, which were
at that time carrying on in different parts of
the country; and, at the some time, by drawing
the whole banking business to themselves,
to supplant all the other Scotch banks, particularly
those established at Edinburgh,
whose backwardness in discounting bills of
exchange had given some offence. This bank,
no doubt, gave some temporary relief to those
projectors, and enabled them to carry on their
projects for about two years longer than they
could otherwise have done. But it thereby
only enabled them to get so much deeper into
debt; so that, when rain came, it fell so much
the heavier both upon them and upon their their
creditors. The operations of this bank, therefore,
instead of relieving, in reality aggravated
in the long-run the distress which those projectors
had brought both upon themselves and
upon their country. It would have been
much better for themselves, their creditors,
and their country, had the greater part of them
been obliged to stop two years sooner than
they actually did. The temporary relief,
however, which this bank afforded to those
projectors, proved a real and permanent relief
to the other Scotch banks. All the dealers
in circulating bills of exchange, which
those other banks had become so backward in
discounting, had recourse to this new bank,
where they were received with open arms.
Those other banks, therefore, were enabled to
get very easily out of that fatal circle, from
which they could not otherwise have disengaged
themselves without incurring a considerable
loss, and perhaps, too, even some degree
of discredit.

In the long-run, therefore, the operations of
this bank increased the real distress of the
country, which it meant to relieve; and effectually
relieved, from a very great distress,
those rivals whom it meant to supplant.

At the first setting out of this bank, it was
the opinion of some people, that how fast soever
its coffers might be emptied, it might
easily replenish them, by raising money upon
the securities of those to whom it had advanced
its paper. Experience, I believe, soon convinced
them that this method of raising money
was by much too slow to answer their
purpose; and that coffers which originally
were so ill filled, and which emptied themselves
so very fast, could be replenished by no
other expedient but the ruinous one of drawing
bills upon London, and when they became
due, paying them by other draughts on
the same place, with accumulated interest and
commission. But though they had been able
by this method to raise money as fast as they
wanted it, yet, instead of making a profit,
they must have suffered a loss of every such
operation; so that in the long-run they must
have ruined themselves as a mercantile company,
though perhaps not so soon as by the
more expensive practice of drawing and redrawing.
They could still have made nothing
by the interest of the paper, which, being over
and above what the circulation of the country
could absorb and employ, returned upon them
in order to be exchanged for gold and silver,
as fast as they issued it; and for the payment
of which they were themselves continually obliged
to borrow money. On the contrary,
the whole expense of this borrowing, of employing
agents to look out for people who had
money to lend, of negotiating with those people,
and of drawing the proper bond or assignment,
must have fallen upon them, and have
been so much clear loss upon the balance of
their accounts. The project of replenishing
their coffers in this manner may be compared
to that of a man who had a water-pond from
which a stream was continually running out,
and into which no stream was continually running,
but who proposed to keep it always
equally full, by employing a number of people
to go continually with buckets to a well at
some miles distance, in order to bring water
to replenish it.

But though this operation had proved not
only practicable, but profitable to the bank,
as a mercantile company; yet the country
could have derived no benefit from it, but, on
the contrary, must have suffered a very considerable
loss by it. This operation could not
augment, in the smallest degree, the quantity
of money to be lent. It could only have erected
this bank into a sort of general loan
office for the whole country. Those who
wanted to borrow must have applied to this
bank, instead of applying to the private persons
who had lent it their money. But a
bank which lends money, perhaps to five hundred
different people, the greater part of whom
its directors can know very little about, is not
likely to be more judicious in the choice of
its debtors than a private person who lends
out his money among a few people whom he
knows, and in whose sober and frugal conduct
he thinks he has good reason to confide.
The debtors of such a bank as that whose conduct
I have been giving some account of
were likely, the greater part of them, to be
chimerical projectors, the drawers and redrawers
