or vestige of the expense of the latter would
remain, and the effects of ten or twenty years'
profusion would be as completely annihilated
as if they had never existed.

As the one mode of expense is more favourable
than the other to the opulence of an individual,
so is it likewise to that of a nation.
The houses, the furniture, the clothing of the
rich, in a little time, become useful to the inferior
and middling ranks of people. They
are able to purchase them when their superiors
grow weary of them; and the general accommodation
of the whole people is thus gradually
improved, when this mode of expense
becomes universal among men of fortune. In
countries which have long been rich, you will
frequently find the inferior ranks of people in
possession both of houses and furniture perfectly
good and entire, but of which neither
the one could have been built, nor the other
have been made for their use. What was formerly
a seat of the family of Seymour, is now
an inn upon the Bath road. The marriage-bed
of James I. of Great Britain, which his
queen brought with her from Denmark, as a
present fit for a sovereign to make to a sovereign,
was, a few years ago, the ornament of
an alehouse at Dunfermline. In some ancient
cities, which either have been long stationary,
or have gone somewhat to decay, you
will sometimes scarce find a single house
which could have been built for its present
inhabitants. If you go into those houses,
too, you will frequently find many excellent,
though antiquated pieces of furniture, which
are still very fit for use, and which could as
little have been made for them. Noble palaces,
magnificent villas, great collections of
books, statues, pictures, and other curiosities,
are frequently both an ornament and an honour,
not only to the neighbourhood, but to
the whole country to which they belong. Versailles
is an ornament and an honour to France,
Stowe and Wilton to England. Italy still
continues to command some sort of veneration,
by the number of monuments of this
kind which it possesses, though the wealth
which produced them has decayed, and though
the genius which planned them seems to be
extinguished, perhaps from not having the
same employment.

The expense, too, which is laid out in durable
commodities, is favourable not only to
accumulation, but to frugality. If a person
should at any time exceed in it, he can easily
reform without exposing himself to the censure
of the public. To reduce very much the
number of his servants, to reform his table
from great profusion to great frugality, to lay
down his equipage after he has once set it up,
are changes which cannot escape the observation
of his neighbours, and which are supposed
to imply some acknowledgment of preceding
bad conduct. Few, therefore, of those
who have once been so unfortunate as to launch
out too far into this sort of expense, have afterwards
the courage to reform, till ruin and
bankruptcy oblige them. But if a person has,
at any time, been at too great an expense in
building, in furniture, in books, or pictures,
no imprudence can be inferred from his changing
his conduct. These are things in which
further expense is frequently rendered unnecessary
by former expense; and when a person
stops short, he appears to do so, not because
he has exceeded his fortune, but because
he has satisfied his fancy.

The expense, besides, that is laid out in
durable commodities, gives maintenance, commonly,
to a greater number of people than
that which is employed in the most profuse
hospitality. Of two or three hundred weight
of provisions, which may sometimes be served
up at a great festival, one half, perhaps, is
thrown to the dunghill, and there is always a
great deal wasted and abused. But if the expense
of this entertainment had been employed
in setting to work masons, carpenters, upholsterers,
mechanics, &amp;c. a quantity of provisions
of equal value would have been distributed
among a still greater number of people, who
would have bought them in pennyworths and
pound weights, and not have lost or thrown
away a single ounce of them. In the one way,
besides, this expense maintains productive, in
the other unproductive hands. In the one
way, therefore, it increases, in the other it
does not increase the exchangeable value of
the annual produce of the land and labour of
the country.

I would not, however, by all this, be understood
to mean, that the one species of expense
always betokens a more liberal or generous
spirit than the other. When a man of
fortune spends his revenue chiefly in hospitality,
he shares the greater part of it with his
friends and companions; but when he employs
it in purchasing such durable commodities,
he often spends the whole upon his
own person, and gives nothing to any body
without an equivalent. The latter species of
expense, therefore, especially when directed
towards frivolous objects, the little ornaments
of dress and furniture, jewels, trinkets, gewgaws,
frequently indicates, not only a trifling,
but a base and selfish disposition. All that I
mean is, that the one sort of expense, as it
always occasions some accumulation of valuable
commodities, as it is more favourable to
private frugality, and, consequently, to the increase
of the public capital, and as it maintains
productive rather than unproductive
hands, conduces more than the other to the
growth of public opulence.
