of Great Britain from a foreign trade of
consumption carried on with a neighbouring,
to one carried on with a more distant country.

It has, in all cases, forced some part of that
capital from the trade with Europe, and with
the countries which lie round the Mediterranean
sea, to that with the more distant regions
of America and the West Indies; from
which the returns are necessarily less frequent,
not only on account of the greater distance,
but on account of the peculiar circumstances
of those countries. New colonies, it has already
been observed, are always understocked.
Their capital in always much less than what
they could employ with great profit and advantage
in the improvement and cultivation
of their land. They have a constant demand,
therefore, for more capital than they have of
their own; and, in order to supply the deficiency
of their own, they endeavour to borrow
as much as they can of the mother country, to
whom they are, therefore, always in debt. The
most common way in which the colonies contract
this debt, is not by borrowing upon
bond of the rich people of the mother country,
though they sometimes do this too, but
by running as much in arrear to their correspondents,
who supply them with goods
from Europe, as those correspondents will allow
them. Their annual returns frequently
do not amount to more than a third, and
sometimes not to so great a proportion of
what they owe. The whole capital, therefore,
which their correspondents advance to
them, is seldom returned to Britain in less
than three, and sometimes not in less than
four or five years. But a British capital of a
thousand pounds, for example, which is returned
to Great Britain only once in five
years, can keep in constant employment only
one-fifth part of the British industry which it
could maintain, if the whole was returned
once in the year; and, instead of the quantity
of industry which a thousand pounds
could maintain for a year, can keep in constant
employment the quantity only which
two hundred pounds can maintain for a year.
The planter, no doubt, by the high price
which he pays for the goods from Europe,
by the interest upon the bills which he grants
at distant dates, and by the commission upon
the renewal of those which he grants at near
dates, makes up, and probably more than
makes up, all the loss which his correspondent
can sustain by this delay. But, though
he make up the loss of his correspondent, he
cannot make up that of Great Britain. In a
trade of which the returns are very distant,
the profit of the merchant may be as great or
greater than in one in which they are very
frequent and near; but the advantage of the
country in which he resides, the quantity of
productive labour constantly maintained
there, the annual produce of the land and labour,
must always be much less. That the
returns of the trade to America, and still
more those of that to the West Indies, are,
in general, not only more distant, but more
irregular and more uncertain, too, than those
of the trade to any part of Europe, or even
of the countries which lie round the Mediterranean
sea, will readily be allowed, I imagine,
by every body who has any experience
of these different branches of trade.

Secondly, The monopoly of the colony
trade, has, in many cases, forced some part
of the capital of Great Britain from a direct
foreign trade of consumption, into a round-about
one.

Among the enumerated commodities which
can be sent to no other market but Great
Britain, there are several of which the quantity
exceeds very much the consumption of
Great Britain, and of which, a part, therefore,
must be exported to other countries. But
this cannot be done without forcing some
part of the capital of Great Britain into a
round-about foreign trade of consumption.
Maryland, and Virginia, for example, send
annually to Great Britain upwards of ninety-six
thousand hogsheads of tobacco, and the
consumption of Great Britain is said not to
exceed fourteen thousand. Upwards of
eighty-two thousand hogsheads, therefore,
must be exported to other countries, to
France, to Holland, and, to the countries
which lie round the Baltic and Mediterranean
seas. But that part of the capital of
Great Britain which brings those eighty-two
thousand hogsheads to Great Britain, which
re-exports them from thence to those other
countries, and which brings back from those
countries to Great Britain either goods
or money in return, is employed in a round-about
foreign trade of consumption; and is
necessarily forced into this employment, in
order to dispose of this great surplus. If we
would compute in how many years the whole
of this capital is likely to come back to Great
Britain, we must add to the distance of the
American returns that of the returns from
those other countries. If, in the direct
foreign trade of consumption which we carry
on with America, the whole capital employed
frequently does not come back in less than
three or four years, the whole capital employed
in this round-about one is not likely to
come back in less than four or five. If the
one can keep in constant employment but a
third or a fourth part of the domestic industry
which could be maintained by a capital
returned once in the year, the other can keep
in constant employment but a fourth or a fifth
part of that industry. At some of the out-ports
a credit is commonly given to those
foreign correspondents to whom they export
their tobacco. At the port of London, indeed,
it is commonly sold for ready money:
the rule is Weigh and pay. At the port of
London, therefore, the final returns of the
