improper taxes upon the transportation of goods
from one part of the country to another; but
above all, that irregular and partial administration
of justice which often protects the
rich and powerful debtor from the pursuit of
his injured creditor, and which makes the industrious
part of the nation afraid to prepare
goods for the consumption of those haughty
and great men, to whom they dare not refuse
to sell upon credit, and from whom they are
altogether uncertain of repayment.

In England, on the contrary, the natural
good effects of the colony trade, assisted by
other causes, have in a great measure conquered
the bad effects of the monopoly.
These causes seem to be, the general liberty
of trade, which, notwithstanding some restraints,
is at least equal, perhaps superior, to
what it is in any other country; the liberty of
exporting, duty free, almost all sorts of goods
which are the produce of domestic industry,
to almost any foreign country; and what,
perhaps, is of still greater importance, the
unbounded liberty of transporting them from
one part of our own country to any other,
without being obliged to give any account to
any public office, without being liable to
question or examination of any kind; but,
above all, that equal and impartial administration
of justice, which renders the rights of
the meanest British subject respectable to the
greatest, and which, by securing to every man
the fruits of his own industry, gives the
greatest and most effectual encouragement to
every sort of industry.

If the manufactures of Great Britain, however,
have been advanced, as they certainly
have, by the colony trade, it has not been by
means of the monopoly of that trade, but in
spite of the monopoly. The effect of the
monopoly has been, not to augment the quantity,
but to alter the quality and shape of a
part of the manufactures of Great Britain,
and to accommodate to a market, from which
the returns are slow and distant, what would
otherwise have been accommodated to one
from which the returns are frequent and near.
Its effect has consequently been, to turn a
part of the capital of Great Britain from an
employment in which it would have maintained
a greater quantity of manufacturing industry,
to one in which it maintains a much
smaller, and thereby to diminish, instead of
increasing, the whole quantity of manufacturing
industry maintained in Great Britain.

The monopoly of the colony trade, therefore,
like all the other mean and malignant
expedients of the mercantile system, depresses
the industry of all other countries, but chiefly
that of the colonies, without in the least increasing,
but on the contrary diminishing,
that of the country in whose favour it is established.

The monopoly hinders the capital of that
country, whatever may, at any particular
time, be the extent of that capital, from
maintaining so great a quantity of productive
labour as it would otherwise maintain, and
from affording so great a revenue to the industrious
inhabitants as it would otherwise
afford. But as capital can be increased only
by savings from revenue, the monopoly, by
hindering it from affording so great a revenue
as it would otherwise afford, necessarily hinders
it from increasing so fast as it would
otherwise increase, and consequently from
maintaining a still greater quantity of productive
labour, and affording a still greater revenue
to the industrious inhabitants of that
country. One great original source of revenue,
therefore, the wages of labour, the
monopoly must necessarily have rendered, at
all times, less abundant than it otherwise
would have been.

By raising the rate of mercantile profit, the
monopoly discourages the improvement of land.
The profit of improvement depends upon the
difference between what the land actually produces,
and what, by the application of a certain
capital, it can be made to produce. If
this difference affords a greater profit than
what can be drawn from an equal capital in
any mercantile employment, the improvement
of land will draw capital from all mercantile
employments. If the profit in less, mercantile
employments will draw capital from the
improvement of land. Whatever, therefore,
raises the rate of mercantile profit, either lessens
the superiority, or increases the inferiority
of the profit of improvement: and, in the
one case, hinders capital from going to improvement,
and in the other draws capital
from it; but by discouraging improvement,
the monopoly necessarily retards the natural
increase of another great original source of
revenue, the rent of land. By raising the
rate of profit, too, the monopoly necessarily
keeps up the market rate of interest higher
than it otherwise would be. But the price
of land, in proportion to the rent which it
affords, the number of years purchase which
is commonly paid for it, necessarily falls as
the rate of interest rises, and rises as the rate
of interest falls. The monopoly, therefore,
hurts the interest of the landlord two different
ways, by retarding the natural increase, first,
of his rent, and, secondly, of the price which
he would get for his land, in proportion to the
rent which it affords.

The monopoly, indeed, raises the rate of
mercantile profit, and thereby augments
somewhat the gain of our merchants. But
as it obstructs the natural increase of capital,
it tends rather to diminish than to increase the
sum total of the revenue which the inhabitants
of the country derive from the profits of
stock; a small profit upon a great capital generally
affording a greater revenue than a
great profit upon a small one. The monopoly
raises the rate of profit, but it hinders the
