sufficiently discourage that exportation. Their
avidity, however, upon this, as well as upon
many other occasions, disappointed itself of its
object. This enormous duty presented such a
temptation to smuggling, that great quantities
of this commodity were clandestinely exported,
probably to all the manufacturing
countries of Europe, but particularly to Holland,
not only from Great Britain, but from
Africa. Upon this account, by the 14th
Geo. III. chap. 10, this duty upon exportation
was reduced to five shillings the hundred
weight.

In the book of rates, according to which
the old subsidy was levied, beaver skins were
estimated at six shillings and eight pence a-piece;
and the different subsidies and imposts
which, before the year 1722, had been laid
upon their importation, amounted to one-fifth
part of the rate, or to sixteen pence upon
each skin; all of which, except half the old
subsidy, amounting only to twopence, was
drawn back upon exportation. This duty, upon
the importation of so important a material
of manufacture, had been thought too high;
and, in the year 1722, the rate was reduced
to two shillings and sixpence, which reduced
the duty upon importation to sixpence, and
of this only one-half was to be drawn back
upon exportation. The same successful war
put the country most productive of beaver under
the dominion of Great Britain; and beaver
skins being among the enumerated commodities,
the exportation from America was
consequently confined to the market of Great
Britain. Our manufacturers soon bethought
themselves of the advantage which they might
make of this circumstance; and in the year
1764, the duty upon the importation of beaver
skin was reduced to one penny, but the
duty upon exportation was raised to sevenpence
each skin, without any drawback of the
duty upon importation. By the same law, a
duty of eighteen pence the pound was imposed
upon the exportation of beaver wool or
woumbs, without making any alteration in the
duty upon the importation of that commodity,
which, when imported by British, and in British
shipping, amounted at that time to between
fourpence and fivepence the piece.

Coals may be considered both as a material
of manufacture, and as an instrument of trade.
Heavy duties, accordingly, have been imposed
upon their exportation, amounting at present
(1783) to more than five shillings the ton, or
more than fifteen shillings the chaldron, Newcastle
measure; which is, in most cases, more
than the original value of the commodity at
the coal-pit, or even at the shipping port for
exportation.

The exportation, however, of the instruments
of trade, properly so called, is commonly
restrained, not by high duties, but by
absolute prohibitions. Thus, by the 7th and
8th of William III. chap. 20, sect. 8, the exportation
of frames or engines for knitting
gloves or stockings, is prohibited, under the
penalty, not only of the forfeiture of such
frames or engines, so exported, or attempted
to be exported, but of forty pounds, one half
to the king, the other to the person who shall
inform or sue for the same. In the same
manner, by the 14th Geo. III. chap. 71, the
exportation to foreign parts, of any utensils
made use of in the cotton, linen, woollen, and
silk manufacturers, is prohibited under the penalty,
not only of the forfeiture of such utensils,
but of two hundred pounds, to be paid
by the person who shall offend in this manner;
and likewise of two hundred pounds, to
be paid by the master of the ship, who shall
knowingly suffer such utensils to be loaded on
board his ship.

When such heavy penalties were imposed
upon the exportation of the dead instruments
of trade, it could not well be expected that
the living instrument, the artificer, should be
allowed to go free. Accordingly, by the 5th
Geo. I. chap. 27, the person who shall be
convicted of enticing any artificer, of or in
any of the manufactures of Great Britain, to
go into any foreign parts, in order to practise
or teach his trade, is liable, for the first offence,
to be fined in any sum not exceeding one
hundred pounds, and to three months imprisonment,
and until the fine shall be paid; and
for the second offence, to be fined in any sum,
at the discretion of the court, and to imprisonment
for twelve months, and until the fine
shall be paid. By the 23d Geo. II. chap. 13,
this penalty is increased, for the first offence,
to five hundred pounds for every artificer so
enticed, and to twelve months imprisonment,
and until the fine shall be paid; and for the
second offence, to one thousand pounds, and
to two years imprisonment, and until the fine
shall be paid.

By the former of these two statutes, upon
proof that any person has been enticing any
artificer, or that any artificer has promised or
contracted to go into foreign parts, for the
purposes aforesaid, such artificer may be obliged
to give security, at the discretion of the
court, that he shall not go beyond the seas,
and may be committed to prison until he give
such security.

If any artificer has gone beyond the seas,
and is exercising or teaching his trade in any
foreign country, upon warning being given to
him by any of his majesty's ministers or consuls
abroad, or by one of his majesty's secretaries
of state, for the time being, if he does
not, within six months after such warning, return
into this realm, and from henceforth
abide and inhabit continually within the same,
he is from thenceforth declared incapable of
taking any legacy devised to him within this
kingdom, or of being executor or administrator
to any person, or of taking any lands within
this kingdom, by descent, devise, or purchase.
